---
title: "Reading Doh-ol's Diary in China"
cover-image: hipster.jpg
categories: reading
---
I never liked Yong Ok Kim, Doh-ol.  I know that there are people who love him, and equal number who hate him.  I don't hate him; I just try to ignore him.  You know, not exactly brilliant but kind of harmless.  I never tried to read his books.  Only once I couldn't resist the temptation, when I couldn't find a decent book on the **Diamond Sutra.**  I regretted it.  My attitude turned from neutral indifference to mild contempt.  For a self-annointed **thinker,** he doesn't know how to **go deeper,** I thought.

And, yesterday I picked up another of his book.  Because I was so keen to know about China, I guess that curiosity got the better part of me; I read his another book, **Doh-ol's Diary in China, Book I** -- mind you, it's his translation; I sometimes wonder how people get as simple translation as this (just 5 words) less than accurately, but I won't indulge it.

If I felt disappointed at his shallowness last time I read his book, I marveled at his I-am-the-master-of-the-unverse attitude this time.  There is no shortage of people like that, but I guessed they're clustered around the world of investments, corporations, and politics and I was wrong, again.  But, it forced me to think, "maybe this is how you're supposed to succeed, even in academics?"

It wasn't exactly about China.  I agree that he can certainly think.  I only dispute he can think at the level he claims to be.  In the book, he argues that he is not an **atheist** because the word means nothing more than an antithesis, a negation of theism (pp. 123 - 138).  He argues that the sentence "There is no pencil" presupposes that there has been one.  In that sense, the sentence is not equivalent to "There is none" or "None exists."  True, but semantically, you mean, not ontologically, right?  From this, he concludes that he cannot be blamed of being an atheist because he never thought there ever was a god (not historically, but logically I guess, because he must have thought of the existence of god when young).  If modern atheism means that there is no god, he continues, it must mean that "there is nothing but god in the world."  He claims it's not even pantheism but deism, because it ultimately means that the entire universe is but a physical extension of god, or god's logic.  He only denies the monotheism, which must claim that there is a god **separate** from other things in the universe, and by denying it, he essentially embraces deism, that there is nothing else but god, that all laws of the universe are but an extension of god's mind, or god.  Therefore, he is not an atheist, a negation of theism, but something entirely new, a deist.  What an obfuscation!  I get what he means, but you don't have to chaotically force your logic through to defy common-sense definitions.  What a moron.  I'm embarrassed at the intellectual charade.  More on it later, when I have nothing better left in my hands to do.  

Still, I'll continue to Book II.  It's moronic, but it's entertaining, in a sense a clown does.
